My theme is the King of the North in the time of the end.
In recent years, the Russian government has persecuted our brothers and sisters who live in that country.
You've heard reports about the police invading kingdom halls and breaking up meetings.
The government has labeled Jehovah's Witnesses as an extremist group.
It has seized our properties and imprisoned our brothers.
Please watch a brief video that reviews some of the trials Jehovah's people in Russia have faced.
On April 20, 2017, the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation criminalized the activity of Jehovah's Witnesses.
As of July 4, 2019, authorities have progressively seized 131 of the properties owned by Jehovah's Witnesses,
with an additional 60 properties subject to confiscation.
One of the seized properties was the former Russia branch complex in Solishnoia.
At the time of filming, the Russian authorities continued their aggressive attack on Jehovah's Witnesses.
As of August 17, 2020, there were 42 witnesses who were in pre-trial attention or sentenced to prison people.
32 who were under house arrest and 169 who were not allowed to leave their hometown.
All have been charged with organizing, participating in or financing the activity of so-called extremist organization.
At least 380 witnesses were at the time under investigation, ranging in age from 19 to 89 years old.
What has this meant for the individuals affected?
As an example, on June 3, 2018, whether Sergei Klymov was arrested.
Local authorities initiated criminal charges against him, placing him in pre-trial detention for two months.
This detention was extended seven times, separating him from his wife and family for a year and five months before he was finally tried and sentenced.
On November 5, 2019, he was sentenced to six years in prison.
Two of our dear young people in Russia, whether Yegor Baranov and Sister Daria Dulova,
are courageously facing criminal conviction and potential long-term imprisonment.
Whether Baranov is only 19 years old.
When the authorities raided her home, Sister Dulova was only 18 years old.
By means of the newsroom on JWWorg, we're informed of updated news events.
This page includes links to name lists of witnesses currently in prison for their faith,
which can help us include them specifically in our prayers.
Our brothers and sisters in Russia are resolved to remain loyal to Yegor, despite any opposition.
And they put their confidence in him in the assurance that Yehova is on their side.
It shouldn't surprise us that this powerful government has been persecuting our peaceful law-abiding brothers and sisters.
Why not? Because that government is fulfilling Bible prophecy.
Please find Daniel chapter 11.
In verse 40, it refers to what the Bible calls the King of the North.
Of that King, Daniel 11.41 says,
he will also enter into the land of the decoration,
and many lands will be made to stumble.
Today, Russia and its allies are filling the role of the King of the North.
Daniel foretold that this King would enter the land of the decoration,
meaning that he would interfere in a significant way with the activities of God's people.
As discussed in the May 2020 watchtower,
Russia and its allies are not the first political power to act as the King of the North,
but they may well be the last.
In this program, we will do three things.
First, we'll briefly trace the fulfillment of the prophecy recorded in Daniel chapter 11.
Second, we'll look at how that prophecy is being fulfilled today.
And third, we'll discuss how knowing this information should affect the decisions that we make.
Brother Herman Vansom, a helper to the writing committee,
will help us review some of the key points of the prophecy recorded in Daniel 11.
Thank you, Herman, for helping me with this presentation.
It's a pleasure to be with you, Ken.
Thank you for inviting me.
First, let's briefly trace how the prophecy has been fulfilled so far.
The prophecy in Daniel 11 mentions the King of the North and the King of the South.
Now, why are they described like that?
Well, initially these powers were located north and south of the literal land of Israel,
thus the names King of the North and King of the South.
These powers could be viewed as two thrones.
Over time, those thrones have been occupied by various political powers
and these rival kings compete for world domination.
And what about Jehovah's people?
They are right at the center of this conflict.
But let's start at the beginning.
Ken, what is the origin of the kings of the North and of the South?
The kings of the North and of the South both rose from the empire established by Alexander the Great.
One line of kings ruled over Egypt, which is south of Israel,
and that dynasty was the first to fill the role of King of the South.
During this period, another line of kings ruled an area north of Israel,
and those kings filled the role of King of the North.
Then, the Roman Empire took over as King of the North.
As discussed in the May 2020 watchtower,
God's people are the focal point of the prophecy recorded in Daniel chapter 11.
The angel who spoke with Daniel said that the prophecy would help him understand
what will befall your people, that is the nation of Israel.
And what in fact happened?
Well, the Jewish nation was God's people until 33CE.
But after that, a change occurred.
Jehovah poured out his Holy Spirit on Christ's followers,
and from then on, the congregation of true Christians became God's people.
Galatians 6 verse 16 refers to them as the Israel of God.
That point is significant, because the kings of the North and South
can only be identified when there is a clearly defined group of God's people on earth.
Why is that the case?
Because, as we just considered, the angel had told Daniel that the prophecy centers on God's people.
In the second century CE, true Christians were overgrown by wheat-like false Christians.
In this illustration of the wheat and the weeds, Jesus foretold that this would happen.
That illustration is recorded at Matthew 13 verses 36 to 43.
So, from the second century onward, we can no longer identify an organized group of true Christians
and, as we considered, for that same reason, we also cannot identify the king of the North and the king of the South.
But, in the 1870s, a group of Bible students began to separate itself from false Christians.
This group, which included Charles T. Russell, rejected teachings that were not based on the Bible.
And, like the first century Christians, they promoted the truths taught in God's Word.
Now, this group underwent a development that is foretold at Malachi chapter 3 verse 1.
They were the messenger who would clear up a way before Jehovah.
And, as events that followed proof, this group clearly had God's backing.
So, from the 1870s onward, when true Christians began to organize themselves as a group,
we can again identify the political powers that fill the roles of the king of the North and king of the South.
At that time in history, Britain was the dominant political force, and it filled the role of the king of the South.
It was also in the 1870s that the German Empire emerged and soon began to challenge Britain for world domination.
This political power now filled the role of the king of the North.
Daniel 11, verse 25 and 26, indicate that the two kings would clash and that the king of the North would lose many soldiers in the battle.
And that is exactly what happened during World War I.
And it was during that war that Britain and its close ally, the United States, forged a special bond.
So, from this point on during these last days, the Anglo-American power has been the king of the South.
That brings us to our second point.
How has Daniel 11 been fulfilled from that time onward until recent times?
During World War I, the king of the North and the king of the South persecuted those of God's people who refused to fight in the war.
The king of the South even threw into jail those who were taking the lead in the preaching work.
But let's take a closer look at the king of the North.
Has the political power filling that role changed during the last days?
And how has it treated God's people?
The identity of the king of the North has changed three times during the last days.
Starting in the 1870s, through to the end of the Second World War, the German Empire filled the role of the king of the North.
In the period leading up to and including World War II, it persecuted God's people without mercy, imprisoning thousands of our brothers and killing hundreds of them.
Who replaced the German Empire as the king of the North?
That's an important question, Herman.
After World War II, the Soviet Union took on that role. It also attacked God's people, imprisoning them or sending them into exile.
But can Daniel 11 for 34 says that they, that is God's people, would be given a little help? What's the significance of that statement?
This passage points forward to the time when the Soviet Union collapsed.
Although God's people suffered terribly under that government, they were given a little help in what way?
After the USSR collapsed, God's people there could worship freely for a number of years.
In time, though, Russia and its allies took on the role of the king of the North.
And like the other powers that filled the role of King of the North, this government has continued to oppress God's people.
How are our brothers and sisters coping with the current persecution? Let's take a look.
And what you're going to see will break your heart, but also strengthen your faith.
At 6 a.m., my husband and I were woken up by a loud bang on the door.
As soon as my husband had opened the door, people burst in shouting, everyone on the floor.
I saw them taking my husband into the kitchen and heard them very aggressively ordering him to do something.
Then I heard some noise and I realized that he was being beaten.
My husband Felix and I were on our way back from the shopping mall to the car park.
A jeep with tinted windows blocked our path and people with weapons jumped out shouting, on the ground, don't move.
We were thrown against the vehicle.
Felix was sent to a pretrial detention facility where he spent a year.
From the very first bang on the door, I began praying to Jehovah for wisdom, calmness and for Holy Spirit
so that I could make the right decisions and act in the right way and for the whole day I was praying.
Jehovah answered all my prayers and I felt that he was close at my side.
Before each court hearing, when I was very afraid and felt overwhelmed by emotion and couldn't calm myself down,
it was prayer that helped me to settle down.
When they took us for interrogation, I started panicking and at that moment I realized that I needed to meditate on something positive.
So I thought, I need to sing our songs and just one song came into my mind, he will make you strong.
It really strengthened me, those words about how a Jehovah gave his son for us, shows he loves us and will never leave us.
Brothers and sisters pray and tell me that they are praying for me.
It gives me the feeling that I am part of a large family.
After the interrogation, he was sent home.
My husband and I continued to stick to our spiritual routine.
We continued to conduct family worship and we are always in the ministry.
Our brothers and sisters constantly support us.
They write kind words, they commend us, they send us encouraging scriptures from the Bible.
In September 2019, Felix was found guilty and sentenced to three years in a general regime colony.
When he and the other brothers arrived there, they were beaten up by officers from the colony.
Felix told me that he prayed while he was being beaten.
And he noticed that at that moment he stopped feeling the pain.
While he is behind bars, Felix tries to conduct family worship with me by letters.
He picks certain themes and some specific questions.
Then I do research in the publications and send back what I find.
The scripture at Isaiah 30 really strengthens me.
Where it says that your strength will be in keeping calm and showing trust.
Although I tend to worry, I understood that calmness is expressed by fully trusting in Jehovah.
I have become stronger because thanks to Jehovah, in a way I have developed almost a shell against the difficulties that used to scare me.
That confidence and faith help me.
Jehovah was with me and he will remain close by me.
And we will be made stronger thanks to him.
And we will get through these trials.
How can we develop courage like our brothers and sisters in Russia?
Well, we must be convinced that the prophecy in the Bible are trustworthy.
As we have discussed, each detail of the prophecy recorded at Daniel 11 has come true so far.
We must have confidence that the remaining events described in that prophecy will also come true.
We are living in the last days of the time of the end.
Soon, the nations will fulfill the prophecy at 1 Thessalonians 5-3.
Whenever it is that they are saying peace and security, then sudden destruction is to be instantly on them just like birth pains on a pregnant woman.
And they will by no means escape.
Then sudden destruction comes upon all parts of Satan's system.
As you can see on the screen, Daniel 121 says,
During that time, Michael will stand up.
The great prince who is standing in behalf of your people.
And there will occur a time of distress such as has not occurred since there came to be a nation until that time.
And during that time, your people will escape.
Hey, everyone who has found written down in the book.
That leads us into our third point.
How should knowing the information that we have just discussed affect the decisions that we make?
Well, what we have reviewed is not just interesting history.
It's a dramatic prelude to what will soon happen here on Earth.
Jehovah has given his people this knowledge so that we can act on it.
It should influence the choices we make.